docs/source/installation.rst, before:

Installation
============
First, install Python on your computer. On Windows and Mac systems, you can install Python from the official website (https://www.python.org/). On Linux systems, Python is typically preinstalled. 

For plotting figures in Python, a graphical user interface (GUI) library is required. The *Tkinter* GUI library comes by default with Python on Windows and Mac systems. On some Linux systems, you may need to install it separately. On Ubuntu, you can install it with the command::

   sudo apt install python3-tk

Alternatively, you can use another GUI library such as *PyQt6* (https://pypi.org/project/PyQt6/). 

Install *motulator* using one of the following options. 

Option 1: Use pip
-----------------
The simplest way to install *motulator* is to use ``pip``. Ensure that you have the latest ``pip``, which can be updated with the command::

   pip install --upgrade pip

Then, install *motulator*::

   pip install motulator

.. note::
   Instead of global installation described above, using a virtual environment is generally recommended. For more information, see https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments. Virtual environments are easiest to create and manage using some integrated development environment (IDE), see Option 2 below.

Option 2: Clone the Repository
------------------------------
For developers and advanced users, we recommended cloning the repository from GitHub. This option allows you to get the most recent version of the repository. Furthermore, you can then modify the system models and example controllers. It is also advisable to use a virtual environment to avoid conflicts with other Python packages. 

Several powerful open-source IDEs are available for Python. The following instructions are for VS Code (https://code.visualstudio.com):

1)	Install VS Code, Python, and ``git`` on your computer. Install also the recommended Python extensions in VS Code.
2) Clone the project::
    
      git clone https://github.com/Aalto-Electric-Drives/motulator

   This will create a folder called *motulator* in your current directory. 

3) Launch VS Code from the cloned project's root directory on the command line (or choose the proper directory after launching VS Code).
4) Create a virtual environment in the workspace using the instructions provided here: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments.
5) Enable installation of suggested requirements in the virtual environment (at least ``requirements.txt``). Alternatively, you may run the command ``pip install -r requirements.txt`` in the VS Code terminal after the virtual environment is created and activated. 

After completing the above steps, the virtual environment can be found in the ``.venv`` directory at the root of the repository. Now you should be able to run all the examples as well as to modify the existing code. When you start VS Code next time, it will automatically detect the virtual environment and use it.

If you installed the requirement in ``requirements-dev.txt``, you can also use the interactive IPython console (click on the *Play* button dropdown menu in VS Code). If you aim to work with the documentation, install also the requirements in ``docs/requirements.txt``. For previewing the documentation in VS Code, you can install the Esbonio extension: https://docs.esbon.io/en/latest/lsp/editors/vscode.html.

If you use Windows, you may need to change the default terminal from the PowerShell to the Command Prompt (press Ctrl+Shift+P for the command palette and search for *Terminal: Select Default Profile*). 

We hope that these instructions allow you to create a virtual environment and start working on the project. Similar steps can be followed for other IDEs.

Commit message:

Refactoring of the control package (#122)
* Refactoring for better modularity, mostly in the control modules. The documentation is not up to date. Many planned aspects not yet done, but this commit aims to show one possible approach.

* Some naming changes

* Grouping the configuration parameters, cleaning the naming conventions.

* Fix some naming

* Simplifications in naming conventions

* Observer-based V/Hz control added after refactoring

* Starting to revise docstrings

* Improved docstrings. Global imports are used in order to enable Sphinx to find the base classes properly.

* For testing the documentation and examples

* Move RateLimiter in V/Hz control from the configuration dataclass to the actual controller class

* Testing if the newest Sphinx works

* Testing Sphinx 7.1.2

* Testing Sphinx

* Change the doc page address back to the original

* Major refactoring of system models

---------

Co-authored-by: Lauri Tiitinen <85596019+lauritapio@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/installation.rst, after:

Installation
============
First, install Python on your computer. On Windows and Mac systems, you can install Python from the official website (https://www.python.org/). On Linux systems, Python is typically preinstalled. 

For plotting figures in Python, a graphical user interface (GUI) library is required. The *Tkinter* GUI library comes by default with Python on Windows and Mac systems. On some Linux systems, you may need to install it separately. On Ubuntu, you can install it with the command::

   sudo apt install python3-tk

Alternatively, you can use another GUI library such as *PyQt6* (https://pypi.org/project/PyQt6/). 

Install *motulator* using one of the following options. 

Option 1: Use pip
-----------------
The simplest way to install *motulator* is to use ``pip``. Ensure that you have the latest ``pip``, which can be updated with the command::

   pip install --upgrade pip

Then, install *motulator*::

   pip install motulator

.. note::
   Instead of global installation described above, using a virtual environment is generally recommended. For more information, see https://packaging.python.org/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments. Virtual environments are easiest to create and manage using some integrated development environment (IDE), see Option 2 below.

Option 2: Clone the Repository
------------------------------
For developers and advanced users, we recommended cloning the repository from GitHub. This option allows you to get the most recent version of the repository. Furthermore, you can then modify the system models and example controllers. It is also advisable to use a virtual environment to avoid conflicts with other Python packages. 

Several powerful open-source IDEs are available for Python. The following instructions are for VS Code (https://code.visualstudio.com):

1)	Install VS Code, Python, and ``git`` on your computer. Install also the recommended Python extensions in VS Code.
2) Clone the project::
    
      git clone https://github.com/Aalto-Electric-Drives/motulator

   This will create a folder called *motulator* in your current directory. 

3) Launch VS Code from the cloned project's root directory on the command line (or choose the proper directory after launching VS Code).
4) Create a virtual environment in the workspace using the instructions provided here: https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments.
5) Enable installation of optional dependencies from ``pyproject.toml`` (selecting at least ``dev`` is recommended). Alternatively, for installing the project with its core dependencies, you may run the command ``pip install .`` in the VS Code terminal after the virtual environment is created and activated (or to include optional dependencies, run ``pip install .[dev,doc]``).

After completing the above steps, the virtual environment can be found in the ``.venv`` directory at the root of the repository. Now you should be able to run all the examples as well as to modify the existing code. When you start VS Code next time, it will automatically detect the virtual environment and use it.

If you installed the requirement in ``requirements-dev.txt``, you can also use the interactive IPython console (click on the *Play* button dropdown menu in VS Code). If you aim to work with the documentation, install also the requirements in ``docs/requirements.txt``. For previewing the documentation in VS Code, you can install the Esbonio extension: https://docs.esbon.io/en/latest/lsp/editors/vscode.html.

If you use Windows, you may need to change the default terminal from the PowerShell to the Command Prompt (press Ctrl+Shift+P for the command palette and search for *Terminal: Select Default Profile*). 

We hope that these instructions allow you to create a virtual environment and start working on the project. Similar steps can be followed for other IDEs.
