docs/source/synchronous_motor.rst, before:

Synchronous Motor
=================

A continuous-time synchronous motor model is given in the module :mod:`motulator.model.sm`. The model can be parametrized to represent permanent-magnet synchronous motors (PMSMs) and synchronous reluctance motors (SyRMs). Peak-valued complex space vectors are used. 

.. figure:: figs/sm_block_rot.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Synchronous motor model
   :target: .

   Block diagram of the motor model in rotor coordinates. The magnetic model includes the flux equation (or, optionally, saturation characteristics) and the torque equation.

The voltage equation in rotor coordinates is [1]_

.. math::
    \frac{\mathrm{d}\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \boldsymbol{u}_\mathrm{s} - R_\mathrm{s}\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s} - \mathrm{j}\omega_\mathrm{m}\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s} 

where :math:`\boldsymbol{u}_\mathrm{s}` is the stator voltage, :math:`\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s}` is the stator current, and :math:`R_\mathrm{s}` is the stator resistance. The electrical angular speed of the rotor is :math:`\omega_\mathrm{m} = n_\mathrm{p}\omega_\mathrm{M}`, where :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}` is the mechanical angular speed of the rotor and :math:`n_\mathrm{p}` is the number of pole pairs. In the magnetically linear case, the stator flux linkage is 

.. math::
	\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s} = L_\mathrm{d}\mathrm{Re}\{\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s}\} + \mathrm{j}L_\mathrm{q}\mathrm{Im}\{\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s}\} + \psi_\mathrm{f} 

where :math:`L_\mathrm{d}` is the d-axis inductance, :math:`L_\mathrm{q}` is the q-axis inductance, :math:`\psi_\mathrm{f}` is the permanent-magnet (PM) flux linkage. As special cases, this model represents a surface-PMSM with :math:`L_\mathrm{d} = L_\mathrm{q}` and SyRM with :math:`\psi_\mathrm{f}=0`.

.. note::
    The linear magnetic model can be replaced with nonlinear saturation characteristics  :math:`\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s} = \boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s}(\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s})`, either in a form of flux maps (see :class:`motulator.model.sm.SynchronousMotorSaturatedLUT`) or explicit functions (see :class:`motulator.model.sm.SynchronousMotorSaturated` corresponding to  [2]_). The module :mod:`motulator.model.sm_flux_maps` contains methods for importing and plotting the flux map data.

The electromagnetic torque is

.. math::
    \tau_\mathrm{M} = \frac{3 n_\mathrm{p}}{2}\mathrm{Im} \left\{\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s} \boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s}^* \right\}

Since the motor is fed and observed from stator coordinates, the quantities are transformed accordingly, as shown in the figure below. The mechanical subsystem closes the loop from :math:`\tau_\mathrm{M}` to :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}`, see the module :mod:`motulator.model.mech`.

.. figure:: figs/sm_block_stat.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Synchronous motor model seen from stator coordinates
   :target: .

   Synchronous motor model seen from stator coordinates.

References
----------

.. [1] Jahns, Kliman, Neumann, “Interior permanent-magnet synchronous motors for adjustable-speed drives,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., 1986, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIA.1986.4504786

.. [2] Hinkkanen, Pescetto, Mölsä, Saarakkala, Pellegrino, Bojoi, “Sensorless self-commissioning of synchronous reluctance motors at standstill without rotor locking, ”IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., 2017, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIA.2016.2644624

Commit message:

Remove default parameters from system models, improve docstrings, simplify saturation models (#89)
* Remove default parameters from the system model, improve docstrings

* Bug fixes in examples and some minor adjustments

docs/source/synchronous_motor.rst, after:

Synchronous Motor
=================

A continuous-time synchronous motor model is given in the module :mod:`motulator.model.sm`. The model can be parametrized to represent permanent-magnet synchronous motors (PMSMs) and synchronous reluctance motors (SyRMs). Peak-valued complex space vectors are used. 

.. figure:: figs/sm_block_rot.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Synchronous motor model
   :target: .

   Block diagram of the motor model in rotor coordinates. The magnetic model includes the flux equation (or, optionally, saturation characteristics) and the torque equation.

The voltage equation in rotor coordinates is [1]_

.. math::
    \frac{\mathrm{d}\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s}}{\mathrm{d} t} = \boldsymbol{u}_\mathrm{s} - R_\mathrm{s}\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s} - \mathrm{j}\omega_\mathrm{m}\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s} 

where :math:`\boldsymbol{u}_\mathrm{s}` is the stator voltage, :math:`\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s}` is the stator current, and :math:`R_\mathrm{s}` is the stator resistance. The electrical angular speed of the rotor is :math:`\omega_\mathrm{m} = n_\mathrm{p}\omega_\mathrm{M}`, where :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}` is the mechanical angular speed of the rotor and :math:`n_\mathrm{p}` is the number of pole pairs. In the magnetically linear case, the stator flux linkage is 

.. math::
	\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s} = L_\mathrm{d}\mathrm{Re}\{\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s}\} + \mathrm{j}L_\mathrm{q}\mathrm{Im}\{\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s}\} + \psi_\mathrm{f} 

where :math:`L_\mathrm{d}` is the d-axis inductance, :math:`L_\mathrm{q}` is the q-axis inductance, :math:`\psi_\mathrm{f}` is the permanent-magnet (PM) flux linkage. As special cases, this model represents a surface-PMSM with :math:`L_\mathrm{d} = L_\mathrm{q}` and SyRM with :math:`\psi_\mathrm{f}=0`.

.. note::
    The linear magnetic model can be replaced with nonlinear saturation characteristics :math:`\boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s} = \boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s}(\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s})`, either in a form of flux maps or explicit functions [2]_, see :class:`motulator.model.sm.SynchronousMotorSaturated`. The module :mod:`motulator.model.sm_flux_maps` contains methods for importing and plotting the flux map data. See also the examples :doc:`/auto_examples/flux_maps/plot_obs_vhz_ctrl_pmsyrm_thor` and :doc:`/auto_examples/vhz/plot_obs_vhz_ctrl_syrm_7kw`.

The electromagnetic torque is

.. math::
    \tau_\mathrm{M} = \frac{3 n_\mathrm{p}}{2}\mathrm{Im} \left\{\boldsymbol{i}_\mathrm{s} \boldsymbol{\psi}_\mathrm{s}^* \right\}

Since the motor is fed and observed from stator coordinates, the quantities are transformed accordingly, as shown in the figure below. The mechanical subsystem closes the loop from :math:`\tau_\mathrm{M}` to :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}`, see the module :mod:`motulator.model.mech`.

.. figure:: figs/sm_block_stat.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Synchronous motor model seen from stator coordinates
   :target: .

   Synchronous motor model seen from stator coordinates.

References
----------

.. [1] Jahns, Kliman, Neumann, “Interior permanent-magnet synchronous motors for adjustable-speed drives,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., 1986, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIA.1986.4504786

.. [2] Hinkkanen, Pescetto, Mölsä, Saarakkala, Pellegrino, Bojoi, “Sensorless self-commissioning of synchronous reluctance motors at standstill without rotor locking, ”IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., 2017, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIA.2016.2644624
