docs/source/model/mechanics.rst, before:

Mechanics
=========

Stiff Mechanics
---------------

The stiff rotational mechanics are governed by

.. math::
    J\frac{\mathrm{d}\omega_\mathrm{M}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \tau_\mathrm{M} - \tau_\mathrm{L} \\
    \frac{\mathrm{d}\vartheta_\mathrm{M}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \omega_\mathrm{M}
    :label: mech_stiff

where :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}` is the mechanical angular speed of the rotor, :math:`\vartheta_\mathrm{M}` is the mechanical angle of the rotor, :math:`\tau_\mathrm{M}` is the electromagnetic torque, and :math:`J` is the total moment of inertia. The total load torque is

.. math::
    \tau_\mathrm{L} = \tau_{\mathrm{L},\omega} + \tau_{\mathrm{L},t}
    :label: load_torque

where :math:`\tau_{\mathrm{L},\omega}` is the speed-dependent load torque and :math:`\tau_{\mathrm{L},t}` is the external load torque as a function of time. One typical speed-dependent load torque component is viscous friction  

.. math::
    \tau_{\mathrm{L},\omega} = B\omega_\mathrm{M}
    :label: viscous_friction
    
where :math:`B` is the viscous damping coefficient. Viscous friction appears, e.g., due to laminar fluid flow in bearings. Another typical component is quadratic load torque

.. math:: 
    \tau_{\mathrm{L},\omega} = k\omega_\mathrm{M}^2\mathrm{sign}(\omega_\mathrm{M})
    :label: quadratic_load
    
which appears, e.g., in pumps and fans as well as in vehicles moving at higher speeds due to air resistance. The model of stiff mechanics is provided in the class :class:`motulator.drive.model.Mechanics`. 

.. figure:: figs/mech_block.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Block diagram of the stiff mechanics.
   :target: .

   Block diagram of the stiff mechanics.

Two-Mass System
---------------

The two-mass mechanics are governed by

.. math::
    J_\mathrm{M}\frac{\mathrm{d}\omega_\mathrm{M}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \tau_\mathrm{M} - \tau_\mathrm{S} \\
    J_\mathrm{L}\frac{\mathrm{d}\omega_\mathrm{L}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \tau_\mathrm{S} - \tau_\mathrm{L} \\
    \frac{\mathrm{d}\vartheta_\mathrm{ML}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \omega_\mathrm{M} - \omega_\mathrm{L}
    :label: mech_two_mass

where :math:`\omega_\mathrm{L}` is the angular speed of the load, :math:`\vartheta_\mathrm{ML}=\vartheta_\mathrm{M}-\vartheta_\mathrm{L}` is the twist angle, :math:`J_\mathrm{M}` is the moment of inertia of the machine, and :math:`J_\mathrm{L}` is the moment of inertia of the load. The shaft torque is 

.. math::
    \tau_\mathrm{S} = K_\mathrm{S}\vartheta_\mathrm{ML} + C_\mathrm{S}(\omega_\mathrm{M} - \omega_\mathrm{L})
    :label: shaft_torque

where :math:`K_\mathrm{S}` is the torsional stiffness of the shaft, and :math:`C_\mathrm{S}` is the torsional damping of the shaft. The other quantities correspond to those defined for the stiff mechanics. Two-mass mechanics are modeled in the class :class:`motulator.drive.model.TwoMassMechanics`. See also the example in :doc:`/auto_examples/obs_vhz/plot_obs_vhz_ctrl_pmsm_2kw_two_mass`.

.. figure:: figs/two_mass_block.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Block diagram of the two-mass mechanical system.
   :target: .

   Block diagram of the two-mass mechanical system.

Commit message:

Add possibility to simulate in torque-control mode, refactor the mechanics module, use complex exponential as an internal state for the angles to avoid discontinuities due to wrapping, remove an unnecessary method from the simulation module. (#133)

docs/source/model/mechanics.rst, after:

Mechanics
=========

Stiff Mechanical System
-----------------------

The dynamics of a stiff rotational mechanical system are governed by

.. math::
    J\frac{\mathrm{d}\omega_\mathrm{M}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \tau_\mathrm{M} - B_\mathrm{L}\omega_\mathrm{M} - \tau_\mathrm{L} \\
    \frac{\mathrm{d}\vartheta_\mathrm{M}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \omega_\mathrm{M}
    :label: mech_stiff

where :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}` is the mechanical angular speed of the rotor, :math:`\vartheta_\mathrm{M}` is the mechanical angle of the rotor, :math:`\tau_\mathrm{M}` is the electromagnetic torque, :math:`\tau_\mathrm{L}` is the external load torque as a function of time, :math:`B_\mathrm{L}` is the friction coefficient, and :math:`J` is the total moment of inertia. The total load torque is

.. math::
    \tau_\mathrm{L,tot} = B_\mathrm{L}\omega_\mathrm{M} + \tau_{\mathrm{L}}
    :label: total_load_torque

A constant friction coefficient :math:`B_\mathrm{L}` models viscous friction that appears, e.g., due to laminar fluid flow in bearings. The friction coefficient is allowed to depend on the rotor speed, :math:`B_\mathrm{L} = B_\mathrm{L}(\omega_\mathrm{M})`. As an example, the quadratic load torque profile is achieved choosing :math:`B_\mathrm{L} = k|\omega_\mathrm{M}|`, where :math:`k` is a constant. The quadratic load torque appears, e.g., in pumps and fans as well as in vehicles moving at higher speeds due to air resistance. The model of a stiff mechanical system is provided in the class :class:`motulator.drive.model.StiffMechanicalSystem`. 

.. figure:: figs/mech_block.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Block diagram of a stiff mechanical system.
   :target: .

   Block diagram of a stiff mechanical system.

Two-Mass Mechanical System
--------------------------

A two-mass mechanical system can be modeled as

.. math::
    J_\mathrm{M}\frac{\mathrm{d}\omega_\mathrm{M}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \tau_\mathrm{M} - \tau_\mathrm{S} \\
    J_\mathrm{L}\frac{\mathrm{d}\omega_\mathrm{L}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \tau_\mathrm{S} - \tau_\mathrm{L} \\
    \frac{\mathrm{d}\vartheta_\mathrm{ML}}{\mathrm{d} t} &= \omega_\mathrm{M} - \omega_\mathrm{L}
    :label: mech_two_mass

where :math:`\omega_\mathrm{L}` is the angular speed of the load, :math:`\vartheta_\mathrm{ML}=\vartheta_\mathrm{M}-\vartheta_\mathrm{L}` is the twist angle, :math:`J_\mathrm{M}` is the moment of inertia of the machine, and :math:`J_\mathrm{L}` is the moment of inertia of the load. The shaft torque is 

.. math::
    \tau_\mathrm{S} = K_\mathrm{S}\vartheta_\mathrm{ML} + C_\mathrm{S}(\omega_\mathrm{M} - \omega_\mathrm{L})
    :label: shaft_torque

where :math:`K_\mathrm{S}` is the torsional stiffness of the shaft, and :math:`C_\mathrm{S}` is the torsional damping of the shaft. The other quantities correspond to those defined for the stiff mechanical system. A two-mass mechanical system is modeled in the class :class:`motulator.drive.model.TwoMassMechanicalSystem`. See also the example in :doc:`/auto_examples/obs_vhz/plot_obs_vhz_ctrl_pmsm_2kw_two_mass`.

.. figure:: figs/two_mass_block.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Block diagram of a two-mass mechanical system.
   :target: .

   Block diagram of a two-mass mechanical system.

Externally Specified Rotor Speed
--------------------------------

It is also possible to omit the mechanical dynamics and directly specify the actual rotor speed :math:`\omega_\mathrm{M}` as a function of time, see the class :class:`motulator.drive.model.ExternalRotorSpeed`. This feature is typically needed when torque-control mode is studied, see the example :doc:`/auto_examples/vector/plot_vector_ctrl_im_2kw_tq_mode`.
