docs/source/model/system.rst, before:

Generic System Model
====================

Sampled-Data Systems
--------------------

Machine drives and grid-connected converters are sampled-data systems, consisting
of continuous-time systems and discrete-time systems as well as the interfaces
between them [#Fra1997]_, [#Bus2015]_. The figure below shows a generic example
system. The same architecture is used in *motulator*.

.. figure:: figs/system.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Block diagram of a sampled-data system
   :target: .

   Block diagram of a sampled-data system. Discrete signals and systems are shown in blue, and continuous signals and systems are shown in red. 

The continuous-time system (named `mdl` in the provided example scripts) is the
model of a physical machine drive or grid converter system. The system comprises
a power converter along with other subsystem models depending on the application. The continuous-time system may have
external inputs, such as a load torque or power fed to a DC-bus of the converter.

The discrete-time controller (named `ctrl`) contains control algorithms, such as
the speed control and current control. The reference signals could be, e.g., the
speed and flux or voltage and power references. The feedback signal :math:`\boldsymbol{y}(k)`
typically contains the measured DC-bus voltage and stator/converter currents. 

Digital control systems typically have a computational delay of one sampling period,
:math:`N=1`. The PWM block shown in the figure models the carrier comparison,
see more details in :doc:`converters`. The carrier comparison is implemented in
the class :class:`motulator.common.model.CarrierComparison`. If the switching ripple
is not of interest in simulations, the carrier comparison can be replaced with zero-order hold (ZOH).

Space Vectors
-------------

The system models in *motulator* apply peak-valued complex space vectors, marked
with boldface in the following equations. As an example, the space vector of the
converter current is

.. math::
	\boldsymbol{i}^\mathrm{s}_\mathrm{c} = \frac{2}{3}\left(i_\mathrm{a} + i_\mathrm{b}\mathrm{e}^{\mathrm{j}2\pi/3} + i_\mathrm{c}\mathrm{e}^{\mathrm{j} 4\pi/3}\right) 
   :label: space_vector

where :math:`i_\mathrm{a}`, :math:`i_\mathrm{b}`, and :math:`i_\mathrm{c}` are
the phase currents, which may vary freely in time. In our notation, the subscript
c refers to the converter-side AC quantities and the superscript s refers to the
stationary coordinates. The space vector does not include the zero-sequence
component, which is defined as

.. math::
	i_\mathrm{c0} = \frac{1}{3}\left(i_\mathrm{a} + i_\mathrm{b} + i_\mathrm{c}\right) 
   :label: zero_sequence

Even though the zero-sequence voltage exists at the ouput of typical converters
(see :doc:`/model/converters`), there is no path for the zero-sequence current
to flow if the stator winding of a machine is delta-connected, or the star point
of the three-phase system is not connected, i.e., :math:`i_\mathrm{c0} = 0`.
Consequently, the zero-sequence voltage cannot produce neither power nor torque.

The space vector transformation in :eq:`space_vector` is implemented in the
function :func:`motulator.common.utils.abc2complex` and its inverse transformation
in the function :func:`motulator.common.utils.complex2abc`. 

.. rubric:: References

.. [#Fra1997] Franklin, Powell, Workman, "Digital Control of Dynamic Systems," Menlo Park, CA, USA: Addison-Wesley, 1997

.. [#Bus2015] Buso, Mattavelli, "Digital Control in Power Electronics," 2nd ed.,  Morgan & Claypool, 2015, https://doi.org/10.2200/S00637ED1V01Y201503PEL007

Commit message:

modified generic system model section, added describtion of the main control loop

docs/source/model/system.rst, after:

Generic System Model
====================

Sampled-Data Systems
--------------------

Machine drives and grid-connected converters are sampled-data systems, consisting
of continuous-time systems and discrete-time systems as well as the interfaces
between them [#Fra1997]_, [#Bus2015]_. The figure below shows a generic example
system. The same architecture is used in *motulator*.

.. figure:: figs/system.svg
   :width: 100%
   :align: center
   :alt: Block diagram of a sampled-data system
   :target: .

   Block diagram of a sampled-data system. Discrete signals and systems are shown in blue, and continuous signals and systems are shown in red. 

The continuous-time system (named `mdl` in the provided example scripts) is the
model of a physical machine drive or grid converter system. The system comprises
a power converter along with other subsystem models depending on the application. The continuous-time system may have
external inputs, such as a load torque or power fed to a DC-bus of the converter.

The discrete-time controller (named `ctrl`) contains control algorithms, such as
the speed control and current control. The reference signals could be, e.g., the
speed and flux or voltage and power references. The feedback signal :math:`\boldsymbol{y}(k)`
typically contains the measured DC-bus voltage and stator/converter currents. 

The discrete-time controllers have the following scheme in the main control loop:

   1. Get the feedback signals. This step may contain first getting the measurements and then optionally computing the observer outputs.
   2. Compute the reference signals (controller outputs) based on the feedback signals.
   3. Update the control system states for the next sampling instant.
   4. Save the feedback signals and the reference signals.
   5. Return the sampling period `T_s` and the duty ratios `d_abc` for the carrier comparison.

The main control loop is implemented in the :class:`motulator.common.control.ControlSystem`.

Digital control systems typically have a computational delay of one sampling period,
:math:`N=1`. The PWM block shown in the figure models the carrier comparison,
see more details in :doc:`converters`. The carrier comparison is implemented in
the class :class:`motulator.common.model.CarrierComparison`. If the switching ripple
is not of interest in simulations, the carrier comparison can be replaced with zero-order hold (ZOH).

Space Vectors
-------------

The system models in *motulator* apply peak-valued complex space vectors, marked
with boldface in the following equations. As an example, the space vector of the
converter current is

.. math::
	\boldsymbol{i}^\mathrm{s}_\mathrm{c} = \frac{2}{3}\left(i_\mathrm{a} + i_\mathrm{b}\mathrm{e}^{\mathrm{j}2\pi/3} + i_\mathrm{c}\mathrm{e}^{\mathrm{j} 4\pi/3}\right) 
   :label: space_vector

where :math:`i_\mathrm{a}`, :math:`i_\mathrm{b}`, and :math:`i_\mathrm{c}` are
the phase currents, which may vary freely in time. In our notation, the subscript
c refers to the converter-side AC quantities and the superscript s refers to the
stationary coordinates. The space vector does not include the zero-sequence
component, which is defined as

.. math::
	i_\mathrm{c0} = \frac{1}{3}\left(i_\mathrm{a} + i_\mathrm{b} + i_\mathrm{c}\right) 
   :label: zero_sequence

Even though the zero-sequence voltage exists at the ouput of typical converters
(see :doc:`/model/converters`), there is no path for the zero-sequence current
to flow if the stator winding of a machine is delta-connected, or the star point
of the three-phase system is not connected, i.e., :math:`i_\mathrm{c0} = 0`.
Consequently, the zero-sequence voltage cannot produce neither power nor torque.

The space vector transformation in :eq:`space_vector` is implemented in the
function :func:`motulator.common.utils.abc2complex` and its inverse transformation
in the function :func:`motulator.common.utils.complex2abc`. 

.. rubric:: References

.. [#Fra1997] Franklin, Powell, Workman, "Digital Control of Dynamic Systems," Menlo Park, CA, USA: Addison-Wesley, 1997

.. [#Bus2015] Buso, Mattavelli, "Digital Control in Power Electronics," 2nd ed.,  Morgan & Claypool, 2015, https://doi.org/10.2200/S00637ED1V01Y201503PEL007
